VERCEL_DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# Vercel Deployment Checklist

## ✅ What Should Work

1. **Next.js App**: Fully compatible - Vercel is built for Next.js
2. **Python Serverless Function**: Located at `api/process-csv.py` - Vercel will auto-detect it
3. **Dependencies**: `requirements.txt` in root - Vercel will install Python packages automatically
4. **File Structure**: Import paths should work correctly

## ⚠️ Required Configuration on Vercel

### 1. Environment Variables
**CRITICAL**: You must set `OPENAI_API_KEY` in Vercel project settings:

1. Go to your Vercel project dashboard
2. Navigate to **Settings** → **Environment Variables**
3. Add:
   - **Name**: `OPENAI_API_KEY`
   - **Value**: Your OpenAI API key
   - **Environment**: Production, Preview, Development (select all)

### 2. Python Runtime
Vercel should auto-detect Python files in `api/` directory, but verify:
- The file `api/process-csv.py` exists
- `requirements.txt` is in the project root
- Python dependencies are listed in `requirements.txt`

### 3. Build Settings
No special build settings needed - Vercel handles Next.js + Python automatically.

### 4. Deployment Protection (IMPORTANT)
**CRITICAL**: If you see an "Authentication Required" error when clicking RUN:

This happens when Vercel's deployment protection is enabled for preview deployments. You have two options:

**Option A: Disable Deployment Protection for API Routes (Recommended)**
1. Go to your Vercel project dashboard
2. Navigate to **Settings** → **Deployment Protection**
3. Configure protection to exclude `/api/*` routes, OR
4. Disable protection for preview deployments (if acceptable for your use case)

**Option B: Use Production Deployment**
- Production deployments typically don't have this issue
- Deploy to production: `vercel --prod` or merge to main branch

The code has been updated to use relative URLs for internal server-to-server requests, which should bypass authentication, but if deployment protection is strictly enforced, you may still need to configure it.

## 🔍 Potential Issues & Solutions

### Issue 1: Python Function Not Found
**Symptom**: `404 Not Found` when calling `/api/process-csv`

**Solution**: 
- Ensure `api/process-csv.py` exists (not in `app/api/`)
- Check Vercel build logs for Python function detection

### Issue 2: Missing Dependencies
**Symptom**: `ModuleNotFoundError` in Python function

**Solution**:
- Verify `requirements.txt` includes all dependencies:
  ```
  numpy>=1.24.0
  scikit-learn>=1.3.0
  openai>=1.0.0
  ```
- Check Vercel build logs for pip install errors

### Issue 3: OPENAI_API_KEY Not Available
**Symptom**: `Missing OPENAI_API_KEY environment variable` error

**Solution**:
- Set `OPENAI_API_KEY` in Vercel environment variables (see above)
- Redeploy after adding environment variable

### Issue 4: Request Format Issues
**Symptom**: `Missing or invalid request body` errors

**Solution**: 
- The handler has been updated to handle multiple request formats
- If issues persist, check Vercel function logs for the actual request format

### Issue 5: Import Errors
**Symptom**: `ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'process_csv'`

**Solution**:
- Verify `scripts/process_csv.py` exists
- The handler adds `scripts/` to Python path automatically
- Check file structure is preserved in deployment

### Issue 6: Authentication Required Error
**Symptom**: HTML page showing "Authentication Required" when clicking RUN

**Solution**:
- This is caused by Vercel's deployment protection on preview deployments
- **Quick Fix**: Deploy to production (`vercel --prod`) - production typically doesn't have this issue
- **Permanent Fix**: Go to Vercel project → Settings → Deployment Protection
  - Either disable protection for preview deployments, OR
  - Configure protection to exclude `/api/*` routes
- The code uses relative URLs (`/api/process-csv`) for internal requests, which should bypass authentication, but strict deployment protection may still block it

## 📝 Testing Deployment

1. **Deploy to Vercel**:
   ```bash
   git push origin main
   # Or use Vercel CLI: vercel --prod
   ```

2. **Check Build Logs**:
   - Look for Python function detection
   - Verify `pip install -r requirements.txt` succeeds
   - Check for any import errors

3. **Test the Function**:
   - Upload a CSV file through the UI
   - Check Vercel function logs for errors
   - Verify environment variables are accessible

4. **Monitor Function Logs**:
   - Go to Vercel dashboard → Your Project → Functions
   - Check logs for `api/process-csv` function
   - Look for any runtime errors

## 🚨 Important Notes

1. **Local vs Production**:
   - Local: Uses `venv/bin/python3` if available
   - Vercel: Uses system Python with packages from `requirements.txt`
   - The code automatically detects the environment

2. **File System**:
   - Vercel functions are read-only except `/tmp`
   - The code uses base64 encoding to avoid file system issues
   - No temporary files are created on Vercel

3. **Timeout Limits**:
   - Hobby plan: 10 seconds
   - Pro plan: 60 seconds
   - Enterprise: Custom
   - Large CSV files might hit timeout limits

4. **Cold Starts**:
   - First request may be slower (cold start)
   - Subsequent requests are faster (warm)

## ✅ Verification Steps

After deployment, verify:

- [ ] Build succeeds without errors
- [ ] Python function is detected in build logs
- [ ] Dependencies install successfully
- [ ] `OPENAI_API_KEY` is set in environment variables
- [ ] CSV upload works in production
- [ ] Python script executes successfully
- [ ] Output file downloads correctly

## 📞 If Issues Persist

1. Check Vercel function logs for detailed error messages
2. Verify all environment variables are set correctly
3. Test the Python function locally first
4. Check Vercel status page for service issues
5. Review Vercel documentation for Python functions

Commit message:

Add deployment protection bypass for internal API calls

VERCEL_DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# Vercel Deployment Checklist

## ✅ What Should Work

1. **Next.js App**: Fully compatible - Vercel is built for Next.js
2. **Python Serverless Function**: Located at `api/process-csv.py` - Vercel will auto-detect it
3. **Dependencies**: `requirements.txt` in root - Vercel will install Python packages automatically
4. **File Structure**: Import paths should work correctly

## ⚠️ Required Configuration on Vercel

### 1. Environment Variables
**CRITICAL**: You must set `OPENAI_API_KEY` in Vercel project settings:

1. Go to your Vercel project dashboard
2. Navigate to **Settings** → **Environment Variables**
3. Add:
   - **Name**: `OPENAI_API_KEY`
   - **Value**: Your OpenAI API key
   - **Environment**: Production, Preview, Development (select all)

### 2. Python Runtime
Vercel should auto-detect Python files in `api/` directory, but verify:
- The file `api/process-csv.py` exists
- `requirements.txt` is in the project root
- Python dependencies are listed in `requirements.txt`

### 3. Build Settings
No special build settings needed - Vercel handles Next.js + Python automatically.

### 4. Deployment Protection (IMPORTANT)
**CRITICAL**: If you see an "Authentication Required" error when clicking RUN:

This happens when Vercel's deployment protection is enabled for preview deployments. You have two options:

**Option A: Disable Deployment Protection for API Routes (Recommended)**
1. Go to your Vercel project dashboard
2. Navigate to **Settings** → **Deployment Protection**
3. Configure protection to exclude `/api/*` routes, OR
4. Disable protection for preview deployments (if acceptable for your use case)

**Option B: Use Production Deployment**
- Production deployments typically don't have this issue
- Deploy to production: `vercel --prod` or merge to main branch

The code has been updated to use relative URLs for internal server-to-server requests, which should bypass authentication, but if deployment protection is strictly enforced, you may still need to configure it.

## 🔍 Potential Issues & Solutions

### Issue 1: Python Function Not Found
**Symptom**: `404 Not Found` when calling `/api/process-csv`

**Solution**: 
- Ensure `api/process-csv.py` exists (not in `app/api/`)
- Check Vercel build logs for Python function detection

### Issue 2: Missing Dependencies
**Symptom**: `ModuleNotFoundError` in Python function

**Solution**:
- Verify `requirements.txt` includes all dependencies:
  ```
  numpy>=1.24.0
  scikit-learn>=1.3.0
  openai>=1.0.0
  ```
- Check Vercel build logs for pip install errors

### Issue 3: OPENAI_API_KEY Not Available
**Symptom**: `Missing OPENAI_API_KEY environment variable` error

**Solution**:
- Set `OPENAI_API_KEY` in Vercel environment variables (see above)
- Redeploy after adding environment variable

### Issue 4: Request Format Issues
**Symptom**: `Missing or invalid request body` errors

**Solution**: 
- The handler has been updated to handle multiple request formats
- If issues persist, check Vercel function logs for the actual request format

### Issue 5: Import Errors
**Symptom**: `ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'process_csv'`

**Solution**:
- Verify `scripts/process_csv.py` exists
- The handler adds `scripts/` to Python path automatically
- Check file structure is preserved in deployment

### Issue 6: Authentication Required Error (HTTP 401)
**Symptom**: HTML page showing "Authentication Required" when clicking RUN, or error logs showing:
```
POST 401 /api/process-csv
Error: <!doctype html><html lang=en>...Authentication Required...
```

**Solution**:
This is caused by Vercel's **Deployment Protection** blocking internal API calls on preview deployments.

**✅ Automatic Fix (Applied)**:
- The code now automatically uses `VERCEL_AUTOMATION_BYPASS_SECRET` environment variable
- This is set by Vercel automatically on all deployments
- The bypass token is added to internal API calls via the `x-vercel-protection-bypass` header
- **No manual configuration needed!**

**Alternative Solutions** (if automatic bypass doesn't work):
1. **Deploy to Production**: `vercel --prod` - production deployments often don't have this issue
2. **Disable Protection**: Go to Vercel project → Settings → Deployment Protection → Disable for preview deployments
3. **Manual Bypass**: Set a custom bypass token in your Vercel project settings

## 📝 Testing Deployment

1. **Deploy to Vercel**:
   ```bash
   git push origin main
   # Or use Vercel CLI: vercel --prod
   ```

2. **Check Build Logs**:
   - Look for Python function detection
   - Verify `pip install -r requirements.txt` succeeds
   - Check for any import errors

3. **Test the Function**:
   - Upload a CSV file through the UI
   - Check Vercel function logs for errors
   - Verify environment variables are accessible

4. **Monitor Function Logs**:
   - Go to Vercel dashboard → Your Project → Functions
   - Check logs for `api/process-csv` function
   - Look for any runtime errors

## 🚨 Important Notes

1. **Local vs Production**:
   - Local: Uses `venv/bin/python3` if available
   - Vercel: Uses system Python with packages from `requirements.txt`
   - The code automatically detects the environment

2. **File System**:
   - Vercel functions are read-only except `/tmp`
   - The code uses base64 encoding to avoid file system issues
   - No temporary files are created on Vercel

3. **Timeout Limits**:
   - Hobby plan: 10 seconds
   - Pro plan: 60 seconds
   - Enterprise: Custom
   - Large CSV files might hit timeout limits

4. **Cold Starts**:
   - First request may be slower (cold start)
   - Subsequent requests are faster (warm)

## ✅ Verification Steps

After deployment, verify:

- [ ] Build succeeds without errors
- [ ] Python function is detected in build logs
- [ ] Dependencies install successfully
- [ ] `OPENAI_API_KEY` is set in environment variables
- [ ] CSV upload works in production
- [ ] Python script executes successfully
- [ ] Output file downloads correctly

## 📞 If Issues Persist

1. Check Vercel function logs for detailed error messages
2. Verify all environment variables are set correctly
3. Test the Python function locally first
4. Check Vercel status page for service issues
5. Review Vercel documentation for Python functions
